The solution of technical issues in the stem fields is always very very
interesting and I have had in both my military and my civilian life
technical issues confront me which I had to work on. To give you an
example in cryptology without going into anything is pretty good classified
if I can, we were all looking at how to recognize the particular
non voice signal that is an electronic signal that was propagated,
but had to be identified, and the question was 'could you identify
it better by ear or by a oscilloscope tracing?' And the oscilloscope
tracing gave you some parameters that could be compared for instance
by digitizing the the aveform and analyzing the digitized waveform.
We found strange slid off that the human ear was better at detecting
the difference signals and it could detect that kind of equipment
that was emitting that signal and surprisingly enough, it's hard
to explain the physics in the physiology of this, it could even detect
a particular machine. That is the signal is different enough that
the human ear listening could couldn't even tell you what the difference
was, but they can say that's machine in place A-prime and the
other single was machine via place B prime. And think about that
when you hear my voice compared to Cary Grant's voice how can you tell
it's me and not Cary Grant or vice versa. You just do as somehow
you can pick out those very fine different sets of technical issues.
Technical issues in the civilian world looking at payroll processing
how you break down a huge problem and rode on a bunch of processors,
used to be just ten or twenty, but then I got to use hundreds and
then thousands and then tens of thousands of processors that's a very
interesting theoretical issue and a practical one that I had to solve.